These functions are being made available for easy access and visualization 
of the "Ford Campus Vision and Laser dataset".  
You may not copy, sell or redistribute this software in whole or in part 
without permission of the author. For further details, contact Gaurav Pandey 
at pgaurav@umich.edu.

THE AUTHOR MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND
CONCERNING THIS SOFTWARE.

Here in this README we describe the various utility functions provided with this dataset.  
Download the tar files containing data and code (i.e. dataset.tgz and Code.tgz)
Unzip the dataset.tgz file to get the following files and folders under the main directory-:
Folders-: SCANS, IMAGES, LCM, VELODYNE.
Files-: Timestamp.log, Pose-Applanix.log, Pose-Mtig.log, Gps.log, PARAM.mat

The main files and folders are described below:
1)LCM:This folder contains the LCM log file corresponding to each trial. Each LCM log file contains
  the raw 3D point cloud from the velodyne laser scanner, the lidar data from Reigal LMS-Q120 and
  the navigational data from the navigational sensors described in section II. We provide software to
  playback this log file and visualize the data in an interactive graphical user interface.
2)Timestamp.log: This file contains the unix timesamp, measured in microseconds since 00:00:00
  Jan 1, 1970 UTC, of each image captured by the omnidirectional camera during one trial.
3)Pose-Applanix.log: This file contains the 6DOF pose of the vehicle along with the timestamp pro-
  vided by the Applanix POS-LV 420 INS, during one trial.
4)Pose-Mtig.log: This file contains the 6DOF pose of the vehicle along with the timestamp provided
  by the Xens MTiG, during one trial.
5)Gps.log: This file contains the GPS data (latitude/longitude/attitude) of the vehicle provided by
  the Trimble GPS, during one trial.
6)IMAGES: This folder contains the undistorted images captured from the omnidirectional camera
  system during one trial. The folder is further divided into sub-folders containing images corre-
  sponding to individual camera of the omnidirectional camera system. This folder also contains a
  folder named "FULL" which contains the undistorted images stacked together in one file
7)PARAM.mat: This contains the intrinsic and extrinsic parameters of the omnidirectional camera
  system. This is a (1 x 5) array of structures with following fields:
      a) PARAM.K: is the (3 x 3) matrix of the internal parameters of the camera.
      b) PARAM.R, PARAM.t: are the (3 x 3) rotation matrix and (3 x 1) translation vector
         respectively which transforms the 3D pointcloud from laser reference system to camera
         reference system.
      c) PARAM.MappingMatrix: contains the mapping between the distorted and undis-
         torted image pixels. This mapping is provided by the manufacturers of the Ladybug3
         camera system and it corrects the spherical distortion in the image. 
8) SCANS: This folder contains 3D scans from the Velodyne laser scanner, motion compensated by
   the vehicle pose provided by Applanix POS-LV 420 INS. Each scan file in this folder is a MAT-
   LAB file (.mat) which can be easily loaded into the MATLAB workspace. The structure of individual
   scan once loaded in MATLAB is shown below:
     a) Scan.XYZ: is an array (3 x N ) of motion compensated 3D point cloud represented in
        Velodyne's reference frame. Here N is the number of points per scan which is typically 80,000-1,00,000.
     b) Scan.timestamp laser: is the unix timestamp measured in microseconds since 00:00:00 Jan
        1, 1970 UTC for the scan captured by the Velodyne laser scanner.
     c) Scan.timestamp camera: is the unix timestamp measured in microseconds since
        00:00:00 Jan 1, 1970 UTC for the closest image captured by the omnidirectional camera.
     d) Scan.image index: is the index of the image which is closest in time to this scan.
     e) Scan.X wv: is the 6DOF pose of the vehicle in world reference system when the scan was captured.
     f) Scan.Cam: is a (1 x 5) array of structures corresponding to each camera of the omnidi-
        rectional camera system. The format of this structure is given below:
        i) Scan.Cam.points index: is a (1 x m) array of index of the 3D points in laser reference frame, 
           in the ﬁeld of view of the camera.
       ii) Scan.Cam.xyz: is a (3 x m) array of 3D points (m < N ) in camera reference
           system, in the ﬁeld of view of the camera.
      iii) Scan.Cam.pixels: This is a (2 x m) array of pixel coordinates corresponding to the
           3D points projected onto the camera.
9) VELODYNE: This folder has several ".pcap" files containing the raw 3D point cloud from velodyne
   laser scanner in a format which can be played back at desired frame rate using our playback tool. This
   allows the user to quickly browse through the data corresponding to a single trial.

Unzip the Code.tgz file. It should have two folders "C" and "MATLAB" containing the utility functions.

"C"-: This folder contains the viewer source code for the visulization of the LCM log files available under the "LCM" folder. This code has been modified 
from the linux-viewer used to visualize the MIT DGC dataset. So to use this viewer one needs to download the lcm-logplayer from (http://lcm.googlecode.com).
User can playback the log files using the lcm-logplayer and the viewer provided here allows the user to render the textured point cloud. 
The compilation instructions about the viewer are available in the README inside the folder Code/C/viewer-ford. 

"MATLAB"-: This folder contains the MATLAB utility functions to play around with the dataset. The details about the functions are given in the README file inside
Code/MATLAB/  
